---
layout: post
title:  "Reading group paper list"
date:   2013-09-07 17:07:24
categories: paper list
---

## Core Systems Papers
# General
End-to-End Arguments in System Design 
Saltzer and Schroeder 
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 1984

Hints for Computer System Design, 
B.W. Lampson 
Proceedings of the 9th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 1983

Google's ["Introduction to Distributed System Design"](http://www.hpcs.cs.tsukuba.ac.jp/~tatebe/lecture/h23/dsys/dsd-tutorial.html "hpcs")


# Basic OS Papers (required reading for all systems students):
HYDRA: The Kernel of a Multiprocessor Operating System 
W. Wulf, E. Cohen, W. Corwin, A. Jones, R. Levin, C. Pierson, and F. Pollack 
Communications of the ACM, 1974

UNIX Implementation 
K. Thompson 
The Bell System Technical Journal, 1978

The Evolution of the UNIX Time-sharing System
D. M. Ritchie
Proc. of the Symposium on Language Design and Programming Methodology, 1979

Protection and the Control of Information Sharing in Multics
Jerome Selzer
Proc. of SOSP, 1974

The Structure of the THE Multiprogramming System 
E. Dijkstra 
Communications of the ACM, 1968

Extensibility, Safety, and Performance in the SPIN Operating System 
Brian Bershad, Stefan Savage, Przemyslaw Pardyak, Emin Gun Sirer, David Becker, Marc Fiuczynski, Craig Chambers, and Susan Eggers 
Proceedings of the 15th ACM Symposium on Operating System Principles

Plan 9 from Bell Labs 
Rob Pike, Dave Presotto, Ken Thompson, and Howard Trickey 
Proceedings of the UKUUG Summer 1990 Conference, 1990

Exokernel: An Operating System Architecture for Application-Level Resource Management 
Dawson R. Engler, M. Frans Kaashoek, and James O'Toole Jr. 
Proceedings of the 15th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 1995

Xen and the Art of Virtualization
Paul Barham, Boris Dragovic, Keir Fraser, Steven Hand, Tim Harris, Alex Ho, Rolf Neugebauer, Ian Pratt, Andrew Warfield
Proceedings of the 19th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles 
October 2003.

Lottery Scheduling: Flexible Proportional Share Resource Management 
C. Waldspurger, and W. Weihl 
Proceedings of the First Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, 1994

A Case for Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks (RAID)
D. A. Patterson, G. Gibson, and R. H. Katz.
Proc. ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 1988

The Design and Implementation of a Log-Structured File System
M. Rosenblum and J. K. Ousterhout
ACM Trans. on Computer Systems, 1992.



## Core Distributed Systems Papers
Implementing Remote Procedure Calls 
A.D. Birrell, and B.J. Nelson 
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 1984

Lightweight Remote Procedure Call
B. N. Bershad, T. E. Anderson, E. D. Lazowska, and H. M. Levy
ACM Trans. on Computer Systems, 1990

Development of the Domain Name System
Paul V. Mockapetris, Kevin J. Dunlap
SIGCOMM, 1988

Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of Events in a Distributed System 
L. Lamport 
Communications of the ACM, 1978

Internet Time Synchronization: the Network Time Protocol
David Mills
IEEE Transactions on Communications, 1991

Experience with Grapevine: The Growth of a Distributed System 
M.D. Schroeder, A.D. Birrell, and R.M. Needham 
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 1984

Scale and Performance in a Distributed File System 
J. Howard, M. Kazar, S. Menees, D. Nichols, M. Satyanarayanan, R. Sidebotham, and M. West
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 1988

Design and Implementation of the Sun Network Filesystem 
R. Sandberg, D. Goldberg, S. Kleiman, D. Walsh, and B. Lyon 
USENIX Summer Conference Proceedings, 1985

Caching in the Sprite Network File System 
M.N. Nelson, B.B. Welch, and J.K. Ousterhout 
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 1988

Managing update conflicts in Bayou, a weakly connected replicated storage system
D. B. Terry, M. M. Theimer, K. Petersen, A. J. Demers, M. J. Spreitzer, and C. H. Hauser
Proc. of 1995 Proc. of the 15th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 1995

The Transaction Concept: Virtues and Limitations
Jim Gray
Proc. 7th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, 1981

Disconnected Operation in the Coda File System 
J.J. Kistler, and M. Satyanarayanan 
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 1992

A Case for Networks of Workstations: NOW.
Thomas E. Anderson, David E. Culler, David A. Patterson
IEEE Micro, Feb, 1995.

Distributed Snapshots: Determining Global States of Distributed Systems

Memory Coherence in Shared Virtual Memory Systems

Bigtable: A Distributed Storage System for Structured Data

Megastore: Providing Scalable, Highly Available Storage for Interactive Services

Spanner: Google's Globally-Distributed Database

The Chubby Lock Service for Loosely-Coupled Distributed Systems

Don't Settle for Eventual: Scalable Causal Consistency for Wide-Area Storage with COPS

Dynamo: Amazon's Highly Available Key-value Store

MapReduce: Simplified Data Processing on Large Clusters

DryadLINQ: A System for General-Purpose Distributed Data-Parallel Computing Using a High-Level Language

PowerGraph: Distributed Graph-Parallel Computation on Natural Graphs



# Security (just a little bit – we'll do more later)
Protection
B. W. Lampson
Proc. of the 5th Princeton Symposium on Information Sciences and Systems, 1971

The Protection of Information in Computer Systems
J. H. Saltzer and M. D. Schroeder
Proc. of the IEEE, 1975

Using Encryption for Authentication in Large Networks of Computers
R. M. Needham and M. D. Schroeder
Communications of the ACM, 1978

Kerberos: An Authentication Service for Open Network Systems
J. G. Steiner, C. Neuman, and J. I. Schiller
Proc. of USENIX '88, 1988

Authentication in Distributed Systems: Theory and Practice
B. Lampson, M. Abadi, M. Burrows, and E. Wobber
ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 1992.
